
See this for reference: Instant Rspec Test Driven Development

How to do it...

    Install RSpec:

    $ gem install rspec

    
    Next, prepare the directory structure:

    $ mkdir lib

    Now run RSpec:

    $ rspec --init

    To show what we're testing, we'll change the .rspec file generated for us, replacing progress with doc:

    --color
    --format doc

    We can now run RSpec on our empty specs directory and verify we have the gem installed:

    $ rspec spec
    No examples found.

    Finished in 0.00004 seconds
    0 examples, 0 failures

How it works…

We'll work with a sample code base that we will later integrate into a Rails 3 application. The code used for demonstration purposes is a very simple and fictitious system that works with geographical coordinates.

While not strictly necessary at this stage, the lib directory is where the code that is written to satisfy the tests will reside.

RSpec creates a spec directory, a spec_helper.rb file within that directory, and a .rspec file in the current directory with sensible defaults.

If you have a problem locating the .rspec file, it's because the file is hidden. A command-line editor such as Vim has no problem opening a hidden file, for example vim .rspec, but using a common dialog box to select a hidden file can be difficult. In OS X, while the Open dialog box is shown, you can press command + shift + . (period) to temporarily show these hidden files.
There's more...

The previous .rspec file contains default configuration options, which are applied while executing the rspec command-line program. You must execute rspec from the directory containing the .rspec file if you want the options contained within to be applied. Each line in the .rspec file contains a different option. Other options include:

    --format progress: Displays progress dots for each executed spec
    --format doc: Renders a wordy documentation
    --format html: Displays HTML-formatted output, which can be redirected to a file and that file can then be viewed in a web browser like Firefox (see -o in the next bullet item)
    -o, --out: Redirects output to the specified file
    -c, --color: Use a color in the terminal output (green for passing and red for failing)
    --fail-fast: Stops execution when the first failing spec is encountered

These are not all the options. For a complete list check the rspec command's help:

$ rspec --help





2. Preparing the RSpec environment (Simple)

In this section, we'll setup a new project that will be used with RSpec and lay some of the foundation source code for the later sections in this book.
How to do it...

    First, create a lib subdirectory under spec and create the location_spec.rb file:

    $ mkdir spec/lib
    $ touch spec/lib/location_spec.rb

    We'll begin this process by authoring a specification in spec/lib/location_spec.rb:

    require "spec_helper"
    describe Location do
    end

    Save the file and run it from your terminal:

    $ rspec spec

    You'll see a stack trace alerting that there is an uninitialized constant named Location:

